For many years, I was nothing more than a spectator in the world of entrepreneurship.

While I watched my friends build their brands and transform them into successful businesses, I remained on the sidelines, paralyzed by the fear of the unknown.

Up until 2018, I had never put pen to paper or fingers to keyboard to share my thoughts online.

Why?

The answer was simple, but also very complex: fear.

I was terrified of putting myself out there. The scenarios I imagined were pretty intimidating:

Scorn
Ridicule
Mocking
Embarrassment
I look back and still don't think these fears were entirely unfounded.

Some of them did happen.

But as time went on, they became blips on my radar, fading into the background of this journey marked by growth and discovery. When I talk to my wife about nasty comments and trolls, I can't even remember who they were or what they said.

There's a lesson in there.

The Leap to Action
It's easy to read about starting something. It's natural to dream about it. It's even common to make elaborate plans to get started.

But none of that compares to the simple, powerful act of just starting.

When we allow our fears to dictate our actions, we miss out on big opportunities.

The worst thing that happens when we take a chance is that our life stays the same. But the best thing? Our life changes for good, forever.

So, how do you actually start? What's the tactical plan for moving from dreamer to doer?

Here are two steps that helped me.

Two Action Steps to Get Started Today
1. Map Your Fear Landscape
Write down your specific fears and anxieties about putting yourself out there. Next to each, write down a rational response or a way to overcome that fear.

Sometimes, simply acknowledging these fears can diminish their power over you.

For example: "I'm afraid that someone will say something nasty to me" is reframed to: "For every person who says something nasty, it's likely that 99 will say something kind."

2. Set a 30-Day Challenge with Public Accountability
Commit to a small daily action related to your goal for the next 30 days. Share this commitment with a friend, family member, or in public on social media.

Public accountability will motivate you and keep you on track.

For example: Erwan Lier decided to finally put himself out there when he read a Tweet of mine about growing on Twitter. It's changed his whole life in 60 days.


The Path Forward
The path of the solopreneur is filled with unique challenges and occasional setbacks.

But it also offers the potential for something truly remarkable. A chance to build something of your own, express your ideas and creativity, and make a meaningful impact on others.

Why not you? Why not today?

You have the power to change your life. And you don't need to wait for a perfect moment or a sign from the universe. The right time is now, and the person to do it is you.

So, stop reading about starting. Stop dreaming about starting. Stop planning to get started. Just start. Your future self will thank you.

If you're interested in starting on LinkedIn, come join 15,000 students and 30 LinkedIn Top Voices who got started using my LinkedIn Operating System to grow and monetize their LinkedIn.

Prefer a starting with a newsletter & Twitter? Check out The Content OS for step-by-step guidance on creating a weekly newsletter and 6-12 pieces of high-quality, relevant content.

Good luck out there. I'm rooting for you.

