Ever wonder why companies want you to come back to the office? 
 
Or spend all day at your desk? 
 
Me too. 
 
Sure...I understand the camaraderie. 
 
Or teamwork. 
 
And some things are more easily done in person than virtually. I get that. 
 
But here's something else I think: 
 
Success is not about long hours in the office. Or sitting at your desk from 9 to 5. 
 
It's about good ideas and sharp execution. 
 
And sometimes, the best ideas come when you're away from your desk. 
 
Like at the dinner table, on a run, or playing with your kids. 
 
Spending time with family isn't just nice, it helps us think better. 
 
Don't get stuck on the old idea that more hours at work means more success. 
 
Try something different. 
 
Spend more time living life, and you might find you're better at your job. 
 
Maybe a new way to measure success is in the quality of our ideas, and how we execute them - not the quantity of our hours. 
 
Your desk isn't going anywhere, but your life is. 
 
Build life-work balance. 
 
Not the other way around. 

9 Entrepreneurial Lessons from the Netflix documentary, 'Sly' about Sylvester Stallone.

1. Pursue your passion relentlessly:

"I am not the richest, smartest, or most talented person in the world, but I succeed because I keep going and going and going."

2. Have a mindset of unbridled optimism:

"I believe any success in life is made by going into an area with a blind, furious optimism."

3. Use rejection as a motivator:

"I take rejection as someone blowing a bugle in my ear to wake me up and get going, rather than a signal to retreat."

4. Adaptability in the Face of Challenge:

"Every time I've failed, people had me out for the count, but I always come back."

5. Build a network of loyal people who love you:

"I learned the real meaning of love. Love is absolute loyalty. People fade, looks fade, but loyalty never fades."

6. Develop a high level of persistence:

"It ain't about how hard you hit. It's about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward."

7. Be a continuous learner:

"Remember the mind is your best muscle... Big arms can move rocks, but big words can move mountains."

8. Don't let failure dictate your mind:

"Success is usually the culmination of controlling failure."

9. Never stop trying to get better:

"I'm always looking for a new challenge. There are a lot of mountains to climb out there. When I run out of mountains, I'll build a new one."

Here are 51,000 people you won't need to compete with. 
 
Because they don't know the success formula: 
 
ğ—˜ğ˜…ğ—½ğ—²ğ—¿ğ˜ğ—¶ğ˜€ğ—² ğ—ºğ˜‚ğ—¹ğ˜ğ—¶ğ—½ğ—¹ğ—¶ğ—²ğ—± ğ—¯ğ˜† ğ—§ğ—¶ğ—ºğ—². 
 
Think about every wildly successful person you know in nearly any industry. 
 
There's a good chance that they are both: 
 
1. Excellent at what they do. 
2. Have been doing it for a long time. 
 
So, why are so many people trying to circumvent this equation with short-term hacks and tricks? 
 
They won't win. 
It rarely works. 
 
If you want to be great at something, here's what you should focus on: 
 
1. Invest in your expertise: 
 
This means constantly learning, growing, and challenging yourself. 
 
The world is evolving rapidly, and those who don't keep up will quickly fall behind. If you're being cheap in your self-investment, you're making a big mistake. 
 
2. Give it time: 
 
Success is not an overnight phenomenon no matter how many people try to sell you this nonsense. 
 
It's the result of consistent effort over time. 
 
Go on a journey you enjoy and understand that every step, even the setbacks, is a big part of your growth. 
 
Patience isn't just a virtue; it's a necessity. 
 
The secret to success lies in perseverance and continuous improvement. 
 
So, ask yourself: Are you investing in your expertise? 
 
Are you giving your journey the time it deserves? 
 
If not, change it up this weekend. 

Becoming an entrepreneur is not about quitting your job. 
 
It's about reinventing your whole life. 
 
We often hear about the desire to quit and chase dreams of entrepreneurship and freedom. 
 
But it's not easy. Or for everyone. 
 
It's difficult to create a life where work aligns with passion, purpose, and personal growth. 
 
If you're trying to make this transition successfully, consider these moves: 
 
1. Identify Your Core Strengths: 
 
Understand (specifically) what you're exceptionally good at and enjoy doing. Both of these are required for entrepreneurial longevity. 
 
2. Develop a Financial Cushion: 
 
Before taking the leap, build a financial safety net. Try to save 6-12 months of spending cash and build your side project to 60% of your total earnings. 
 
3. Adapt Continuously: 
 
The world of entrepreneurship is ever-evolving. Stay ahead by constantly learning new skills and keep experimenting with new content, products, networking ideas, etc. 
 
4. Build a Huge Support Network: 
 
Surround yourself with mentors, peers, and a community that supports you. That actually wants you to win. Their guidance, encouragement, and shared experiences are invaluable. 
 
If you've made this transition, or are considering it, what else have you found to be most effective? 